Core Concepts

-   Tekton Pipelines for CI/CD

-   Deployment with ArgoCD

    -   Individual ArgoCD instances

    -   App of Apps Pattern

-   ESTA Tekton Pipelines

Tekton Pipelines for CI/CD

In ESTA Tekton CI/CD we use Tekton or the OpenShift variant of it in its
core. Tekton is available on the dedicated build cluster. For the build
and release process ESTA Tekton implements standard pipelines based on
Tekton. The Pipelines are started by the ESTA Tekton Controller (see
Architecture Overview). Frontend to the builds is Tekton Control Panel.
No direct access or deep understanding of Tekton is necessary for the
user to operate the build system.

Tekton however is a very powerful tool and the ESTA Tekton build system
also allows modifications or extensions to the standard pipelines we
provide. It even supports to create completely custom pipelines which
are still started and monitored by the controller. If the standardized
build process doesn't cover all your needs, we recommend to learn more
about Tekton Pipelines and start building your own. In the future it
will be possible to overwrite the esta standard pipelines by your own.
Of course the Clew team can support you with your needs or feature
requests.

[Tekton cat]

Deployment with ArgoCD

For the deployment of the ESTA Tekton CI/CD system we recommend to use
ArgoCD with Helm charts to describe the project deployment. Deployment
is not an integrated part of Tekton pipelines and thus ArgoCD is only
one option to choose, although the preferred one. The build pipelines
can create Helm charts and publish them to a Helm repository in
Artifactory. ArgoCD can be configured to apply these Helm charts from
Artifactory or directly sync charts from a Git repository.

Individual ArgoCD instances

As shown in the Architecture Overview, individual ArgoCD instances are
set up on the cluster where your projects are deployed and are just
triggered by Tekton to sync after successful builds. The setup and
configuration (including access control) is specific to each business
unit for maximum flexibility and security.

App of Apps Pattern

ArgoCD promotes the GitOps approach.  So almost all of its
configurations should be stored in Git. We recommend to implement the
app of apps pattern as described in the ArgoCD documentation.

[Argo]

ESTA Tekton Pipelines

So what are ESTA Tekton Pipelines then?

It's a catalog of standard Tekton pipelines and tasks used to build and
deploy SBB projects from a estaTektonPipeline.json definition. Each
pipeline definition has a corresponding template (_run.yaml) to start a
PipelineRun using a set of parameters. These files are primarily
controlled by the ESTA Tekton Controller but can also be applied and run
individually. The ESTA Tekton Controller makes sure that all those
pipelines with their referenced task definitions are present in the
build namespace.

[ESTA Tekton logo]
